# Discussion

Ever since the first LEGO wooden blocks were made by a Danish carpentry workshop in 1932, LEGO has had significant influence on the popular culture of the 20th and 21st centuries. In our analysis, we have seen how the LEGO sets have transformed between the years 1950 to 2017.

In Fig 1, we see the number of different LEGO sets produced in each year has increased over the years. An exception to this general trend is seen between 2002 and 2006, when the number of different sets have decreased from 447 sets produced in 2002 to 283 sets produced in 2006. This period may reflect the period of decline in LEGO's profits between 1992 and 2004, described in [Wikipedia article on History of Lego.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Lego)

We have also seen how the distribution of popular themes have changed over the years, and the themes appear to match the contemporary trends such as films or sporting events. Interestingly, Star Wars themes have consistently placed among the themes with most number of sets released, which makes sense. According to the above Wikipedia article, the first LEGO sets featuring licensed intellectual property were Star Wars and Winnie the Pooh sets released in 1999. Since then, various sets have followed suit, featuring other blockbuster movies such as Harry Potter and Steven Spielberg movies.

Visualization of the color palette used over the years show that the colors used for LEGO parts have become more diverse, as expected. In addition, while light gray and dark gray colors were not used as much in earlier years, they have been used increasingly in recent years. There are some fascinating observations made about the change of color palette used in LEGO blocks in [this article](https://www.brothers-brick.com/2015/10/14/the-changing-palette-of-lego-1975-2014/).

Last but not least, we see that there has been a general increasing trend in the number of parts included in a set. To be honest, I expected the number of parts in each set to have decreased over the years, as the sets and the themes have become more specific and specialized. I'm sure many fans of the LEGO franchise will be relieved to learn that, on average, there are more number of pieces in LEGO sets produced now than there used to be in the 1950s. According to the dataset used here, Taj Mahal set had the most number of LEGO pieces up until 2017, with 5922 pieces. (It appears that [a few LEGO sets](https://thecollector.io/features/the-30-biggest-lego-sets-ever) have been released since then with more number of pieces, but Taj Mahal set still maintains a respectable 4th position as of Apr 01, 2021).

This has been a very interesting dive into the history of LEGO sets! In the future, I would like to examine how the color palette used and the mean number of parts in a set differ across different themes.
